W-10673288 adding write mutations content (#72)
mulesoft/docs-anypoint-datagraph: modules/ROOT/pages/write-queries-tutorial.adoc

}
--

== Add a Query Alias

> You can use aliases to rename individual keys in the query response.

Reviewer: Update keys to fields.

}
--

If you want to get the same fields for two or more query operations using different input parameters, you can provide an alias to the query operations. 

----
{
  Order1: ordersByOrderId(orderId: "51c0ba3a-7e64-11e7-bb31-be2e44b06b3") {
    billingAddress {
      state
      city
      postalCode
    }
    totalPrice : total
    orderStatus : status
  }

>   Order 2: ordersByOrderId(orderId: "87c0ba4a-de28-12o7-pd11-eew12094b0w4) {

Reviewer: Update Order 2 to Order2

    billingAddress {
      state
      city
      postalCode
    }
    totalPrice : total
    orderStatus : status
  }
}
----

This helps to avoid errors if the same fields get different values.

== Write a Mutation

> Mutations are operations you use to add, update and delete data objects. In GraphQL, mutation operations represent the POST, PUT, and DELETE HTTP methods you’ve defined in your REST API specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_Mutations_ are operations you use to add, update, and delete data objects. In GraphQL, mutation operations represent the POST, PUT, and DELETE HTTP methods you’ve defined in your REST API specification.
```

To simplify the schema, inputs to mutations are handled by _input types_, which represent the attributes of objects created by mutation operations. Input types are POST, PUT, and DELETE request objects you use to modify information in your unified schema when you run mutations.

For example, the schema shown in the following example has six mutation operations associated with it: 

image::schema-explorer-mutation-method.png[Six mutation operations listed in the schema explorer]

> Consider `createCustomer`: This mutation takes the `CustomerInput` object as an input and creates a new object of type, `Customer`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider `createCustomer`: This mutation takes the `CustomerInput` object as an input and creates a new object of type `Customer`. 
```

So in this case, the input type `CustomerInput` has the following fields:

image::schema-explorer-mutation-fields.png[Fields for CustomerInput listed in the schema explorer]

Notice that the address field has data from the `AddressInput` input type:

image::schema-explorer-mutation-fields2.png[Fields for AddressInput listed in the schema explorer]

As you execute the mutation operation, you provide a value for each field in the input type:
 
----
mutation {
  createCustomer(input: {
    firstName: "Lydia",
    lastName: "Millet",
    address: {
      city: "Tucson",
      state: "Arizona",
      street: "Speedway",
      postalCode: "1234"
    }
  }) 
  {
    id
  }
}
----
 

> As previously stated, this mutation creates a new customer, so DataGraph returns the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because this mutation creates a new customer, DataGraph returns the following:
```
